Welcome back, in this video,
we're going to introduce
Power Pivot and look at
how we can get data into
the Power Pivot data model.
What is Power Pivot?
Power Pivot is an Excel
add-in that allows us
to manage millions
of rows of data and
perform powerful data
analysis on that data.
In the workbook I
currently have open,
there are actually 5
million sales records.
We can't see them
because I haven't put
them in the worksheet
as they wouldn't fit.
Instead, I've loaded them
into the data model.
To access the data
model, however,
we're going to need to enable
the Power Pivot add-in.
We're going to come
to our file ribbon
and we're going to
come down to Options,
we're going to select Add-ins,
and then at the
bottom where it says,
Manage, we're going to choose
COM Add-ins and then click, "Go".
Make sure you've selected
the Microsoft Power Pivot for
Excel add-in and click, "Okay."
If you have a look
in your ribbon,
you will see a new tab called
Power Pivot and when
you click on that,
you get the option to
manage your data model,
so we're going to
click on that button
and now I can see my 5
million sales records.
If you have a peek at the
bottom of the screen,
it says 1 of 5 million.
Now I can't edit the
data in Power Pivot,
but I can sort it, filter it,
and more importantly, create
pivot table reports from it.
Something interesting
to note as well,
if we have a look at
the original CSV where I
loaded this data from,
it was over 600 meg,
but the Excel file
is only 140 megs,
so Power Pivot also gives us
some powerful data compression.
But how do we get the data into
Power Pivot in the first place?
Well, that's what we're
going to look at next.
I'm actually going to close up
my Power Pivot window
and I'm going to close
my 5 million sales records
file and can you make
sure you've got 331,
Adding Data to the
Data Model open.
This week we've been asked to do
some data analysis for a
company called AdventureWorks.
They're a bicycle retailer,
so they sell bicycles,
components, and accessories
to stores all over the world.
The actual data is from
a Microsoft database,
and it comes in lots of
different tables and we
need to now load those
tables into our data model.
The very first one that we
want to load is our HR data,
which is currently sitting
in an Excel spreadsheet.
How do we get that data from
the spreadsheet into
the data model?
Well, we already know one way,
it's our old friend, Power Query.
Power Query is an ideal choice
if you need to do
transformations on the data.
But let's see how we use it
to get it into the data model.
We're going to come
to our data tab,
and we are going to click,
"New Query" or "GetData",
depending on your version,
from file, and from workbook.
Please navigate to
where you downloaded
your files and we're
looking for the HR data
file and we're going to
double-click to open that.
The data we want is in
the lookup staff tables,
so I'm going to select that.
There's our preview and now
we would typically click
the "Transform Data" button
because we use Power Query,
in this case, to actually
make the transformations.
You guys know how
to do that though,
so we're going to skip that step.
I'm going to click
the dropdown next to
Load, and I'm going to choose,
Load to and here's
the magic button,
"Add this data to
the data model."
We're going to select that
and choose only create
connection because
we only want in
the data model and then we're
going to click, "Okay."
Power Query has created
a connection and loaded
the data to the
data model for us,
but what if we don't
need to use Power Query?
For example, in the next
tab, the products tab,
I have my data sitting right
here and it doesn't
need to be transformed,
I just want to put it
straight into the data model.
Well, I can do that too.
We're going to click
into the data,
we're going to come to our
Power Pivot ribbon this
time and we're just
going to select,
"Add to Data Model."
This is the best way
of getting data from
Excel directly into your model.
If you have a look at the
bottom of the screen,
you'll see we have four tabs,
one for each dataset,
so here's our products,
there's the stuff that
we loaded a moment ago,
and actually there were two
datasets already there,
all of the orders that
had been placed from
2018-2020 and each of
the items are ordered with
each of those orders,
so this is the data
we're going to
use to do our analysis.
But there's two more
tables we need.
The first one is
our customer data.
Now, this is actually sitting in
a database and one of the
fantastic things about
Power Pivot is it allows us to
connect directly to the database,
which is much more efficient
than downloading and uploading.
Coming on to our home
ribbon in Power Pivot,
we're going to come
to the From Database
and we're going to
select From Access.
Now we're going to browse
to find our database,
so I'm going to select the
"Browse" button back to
your download folder
and there's my CRM,
my Customer Database,
I'm just going to
double-click to select that
and then click, "Next".
Now when you're pulling
data from a database,
you actually have the
option to get the data from
a query and that's
a great idea if you
actually need a
subset of the data.
We're going to get it directly
from the table though,
so we're just going
to click "Next",
there's only one table so
I'll look up customers,
so just make sure that's ticked
and we're going to
click, "Finish".
This is a security
warning because
we are pulling data from
an external source,
that's fine, we're
going to click,
"Okay" and close as
our data has now been
imported into our data model.
The last table we need
is a calendar table,
this is going to give us date
information and it's going
to make it easier for us
to do the Time
Intelligence Analysis
that we're going to look
at later on this week.
If you already have a calendar
table, you can import it,
but the brilliant thing
about Power Pivot is it will
actually supply you
with a calendar.
To do this, we're
going to come to
our Design tab and
on the right-hand side
you'll see Data Table.
Going to click the
drop-down and select
"New" and how easy was that?
There's our calendar table.
We're going to close
our Power Pivot window
for a moment so I'm just going
to click the little cross at
the top right-hand corner and
back in Excel you'll see we
just have the one query that
we created with Power Query.
But if I click on "Connections",
there are the six connections
to my Power Pivot tables.
We've seen quite
a few methods for
adding data into our data model,
we're not quite finished
with the model yet though,
we still need to add those
relationships between
the datasets and that's exactly
what we're going to look
at in the next video.